saster fans welcome to another episode
of the cro confidential podcast I'm your
host Sam blonde we have an unbelievable
treat in store for today with a guest
that I'm just thrilled to have joh Carlo
leonetti more famously known as GC the
current chief Revenue officer at zapier
GC let me just quickly run through your
background here and then I'm going to
flag a few things that stand out that
make you exceptionally unique so John
Carlo back in 2007 started it at lassan
as a technical sales lead moved into
product marketing had a six plus year
stint at atlassian moved on to Dropbox
in a senior director of growth and
monetization role also was a vice
president of Self Serve growth with
Dropbox became the chief marketing
officer at confluent after a fiveyear
run at Dropbox and currently occupies
the seat of Chief Revenue officer at
zapier and there are three things about
this experien GC Each of which on their
own are incredible but I think as a
combination make you like effectively an
in of one maybe the only person that has
these three things the first is the
quality of the companies that you joined
at a very early stage we are four for
four I think you were one of the first
US employees at atlassian Dropbox in
2014 confluent and now zappier so first
quality of companies the second is the
tenure that you experienced with each of
these companies the story zapier is not
done we're approaching two years here
but an average of something like five
years at these other businesses so just
incredible runs time and time again and
then lastly the breath of your
experience is exceptional so we have
technical sales lead so sales we have
product marketing we have selfs serve
growth the thing that comes to mind
there for me is like product Le growth
we have Chief marketing officer and now
we're coalescing all of these
experiences into the chief Revenue
officer role where most folks like
myself typically come up either through
sales or marketing and land in this cro
role but you have done it all so with
that welcome to the Pod and ecstatic to
have you on hearing it back it sound it
feels like a maze not a ladder if that
makes sense thanks for the intro there
that's awesome very cool before we get
into the first topic which will be
relevant to the sort of breadth of the
experience that you have I think let's
first give the audience some context
many I'm sure know the answer to this
first question but I think it's helpful
for level setting what is zapier and
then if you could just give a brief
history of zapier's go to market and how
that has evolved with the business so
zapier is a category leader workflow
automation platform for smnp businesses
that really want to grow faster by
maximizing the efficiency of their teams
tools processes and really without
relying on developing teams so that's
our core value prop there and when you
think about it from a goto Market
perspective today's zap year is a hybrid
go to market really that leverages
product Le growth but also a sales L
motion and zappier is a two-sided
Marketplace so we're doing this via both
our product and our partner
ecosystem the goto Market strategy
involves a combination of things like
premium offering subscription plans and
Partnerships like those are really the
big three and we really leverage this
like land and expand model so you land a
customer at a lower price point or skill
expand via like feed differentiation
across plans product usage or you can
add additional products and zap yours go
to market has several complimentary
motions and this will describe our
Evolution first there's product lead and
really what this means is users will
start on a trial via zapier.com and
purchase via credit card this has been
traditionally zapier's motion throughout
its history then there's product Le with
integration partners and we basically
co-develop embedded embedded product
Discovery surface with other products
and so you can use their like we are
leveraging their UI next is sales Le and
this is new for us so over the past few
years we've started to integrate a sales
or human touch motion and this really
caters to these higher complexity
problems and use cases to solve for
businesses which in turn introduces all
these things different stakeholders
buying process and that's all supported
really by a channel who provide key
services around the zap year products
long-winded but hopefully it gives you
the shape of our CTO Market
super helpful what's going through my
mind is today we do it all but it was a
process getting here and I think much
like at lassan where you spent seven
years we started with a product Le
growth motion and then added in other
Market strategies on top to accelerate
growth even beyond what we were
experiencing exactly that's super
helpful and I think will incorporate a
lot of that experience into today's
conversation let's actually start on the
people side of things and as I talked
through your experience in the intro I
can't think of anyone better to provide
guidance here given your background
where you have sales background product
marketing background and fruct Le growth
background so one of the most common
conversations that I have with probably
folks that are on this call which is
going to be Founders and goto Market
leaders at Tech startups is around
Staffing the
team and what people do we need and when
and we have these sort of like broad
categories of Marketing sales servicing
and then within each of those categories
we have subcategories within marketing
product marketing and demand gen within
sales we have SDR and AE within
servicing we have implementation account
management CSM this obviously not one
size fits all which I think is important
to flag but do you have
a rough framework for what people and
areas of focus Tech startups should
resource and the sort of sequencing
around those things yeah I will start
off by saying I don't know if I have a
perfect framework and I don't know if
there is a perect frame as you mentioned
but let me start off with some of the
areas I'll talk about three areas that I
think about when you're asking that
question so the first is needs shortterm
and long-term so often times when you're
like debating a role especially on the
go to market side you're balancing these
like needs of short-term and long term
so let me give you an example here a key
goal of the company is to drive Topline
growth by x% right I think about that
for zapier the first rle that comes to
mind when I say that is something around
driving revenue and most likely in sales
so I'm going to hire X inbound sales to
meet that growth but then that could be
a short-term way of thinking but what
sometimes happens is the long-term
thinking care you might be debating a
higher let's say on the demand gen side
so meaning you can't hit that Topline
growth unless you have the right demand
coming in and what if you can only hire
one of those right what are you hiring
for are you hiring short-term or
longterm I'll come toward how I choose
the path in a second but that's
something I think about the next thing I
think about which I think is incredibly
important is product maturity and I'll
speak to this from zapier's point of
view where if you had talked to me two
years ago and said gec go and build a
sales organization at zapier that should
be X people let's even say 50 or 100 her
Pedic maturity at that time was as far
as the up Market side was still new for
us we had primarily been adopting or
been building towards this vssb SNB
audience and to hire 50 people against a
product that wasn't ready for a specific
audience would be a mistake for us and
we've actually grown into that over time
so something you have to think about is
where is your product maturity example
would you hire a growth person right if
your product didn't give the
capabilities to like Tinker with the
product maybe in product onboarding
maybe even the website Etc so you've got
to think about the where your product is
at at that time and then the last thing
I think about is the role focus is a
role like more experimental or will it
help you scale and even in the startup
world you sometimes you have strong
hypotheses but you don't know if those
hypotheses will work out as an example
I'm going to use zapier here where um
sales two years ago was a new function
for us when I arrived here we actually
had two sales people and One customer
success person but we were still trying
to prove out that model we were not
ready to scale and so really thinking
about is this like an experiment role or
a scale role that will help you figure
out that higher when you I more of this
but those are like the three that come
to mind when you're talking and they
usually fall into one of I would say
four categories when you're talking
about go to market distribution Revenue
storytelling or messaging or some type
of operations I'm using that one more
broadly and even when experiences that
I've had with Founders for quite some
time at this point asking that same
question their needs normally fall into
distribution and revenue initially
there's some in the storytelling
messaging side but it falls in the
distribution and revenue so that's like
usually during a conversation I start to
like Veer towards those two area and I'm
either trying to qualify them in or out
and so the way I think about this if I'm
listening to this call is like have you
prioritize against those categories
maybe using those three like that rubric
of short-term longm term product
maturity and experiment or scale and
then one thing that you said around dis
the these broad categories distribution
Revenue storytelling and then we'll like
separate operations but functions that
come to mind just to reinforce here
distribution this is like Marketing in
top of the funnel largely demand genin
could be SDR or anybody that's oriented
around generating demand the next one
around revenue is sellers people to
close business and then on the
storytelling side what comes to mind for
me where I actually have the least
amount of experience is around product
marketing is that the right way of
bucketing s people or titles functions
into each of these categories yeah dead
on noing my head that's dead-on so if
you look at that spectrum of what you
just described and like the titles that
you described the one that I'd include
in there that's probably some middle
between distribution and revenue is this
growth category right where sometimes it
could fall somewhere in the middle but
that's the only one that I'd add to your
list so that was that on then makes a
lot of sense then you joined zapier when
it was a more mature business than when
mini hire their first cro and so we can
use that as a data point we can also use
I'm sure you speak with startups
regularly and just get some brought
under either as an advisor or inv
consultant whatever and do you recognize
any patterns or themes with businesses
where there there's some C or or some
function that is almost universally
underresourced in in a given area it's
like a missed
opportunity I'm going to give you the
answer that I always give right and I do
think it normally is sales and marketing
right and not just because I'm on this
podcast that's what I that's where I
usually observe it and I'll give you a
couple reasons why I see it that way you
usually expect your your heads down
especially like early days your heads
down building an incredible product
which you should be doing but at some
point you need to get it out there to
the world right and you need to drive
like you said top of the funnel you need
to drive some level of Demand right and
you need to close that demand demand
into dollars and what I see happen is
you expect big things but you
underinvested sales and marketing side
so it doesn't mean you need to go crazy
right but sometimes if you don't have
somebody who's capable of a demand gen
person to drive Demand right you're
you're going to struggle in driving
Demand right unless it's a purely
organic business which is quite frankly
is extremely rare these days so that's
one thing I'd call out the second thing
I'd call out out is you're actually not
clear on the actual needs that you have
I often times see this in marketing so
in marketing you named some of those
categories but we're talking about
demand generation we're talking about
storytelling and pmn we're talking about
cols and communication we're talking
about strategy which one of those do you
actually need and where do you actually
where you actually under resource in one
of those areas there's no Silver Bullet
marketing is probably the category this
includes early days zaper but also in
other organizations that I've been at
where you quite frankly you miss because
you hire somebody that you hire a demand
gen person that you eventually are like
I want them to do the storytelling side
that's not in for most folks that's not
their skill set and then the last thing
I realize is when you're under resource
this happens internally at zapier and
it's happened virtually everywhere else
I've been at you try to find a temporary
solution contractors Consultants these
Band-Aids for things that seemingly that
you would describe as one of your most
important things that you need to
accomplish and I I just think there's a
mismatch there right if it's a priority
it's a priority you should hire around
that priority and if it's not that's
okay lots of takeaways I'm going to the
one that I gravitate most towards that
you mentioned was the second point that
you had which was around not
understanding what the business actually
needs just hiring because we think this
is where somebody should go without
being super thoughtful about
understanding where the bottlenecks or
constraints actually exist and uh in
many of the conversations that I have
with people not only is it not
understanding it's oftentimes also
misdiagnosing and I'm going to touch on
two areas that I see most commonly the
first is on the customer acquisition
side and I spend a lot of time on this
podcast talking about it so I'm not
going to go super deep but I over
resourcing on what I will describe as
middle of the funnel and closing
customers and under resourcing on top of
the funnel or generating demand and so
that is something that I see like
seemingly universally but there's a
second one that I've talked less about
on this pod that I'll touch on now which
is post sale I see lots of resources in
this category of CSM which is like
ongoing maintenance and servicing of
customers and under resourcing in
implementation and I just think the
initial experience that a customer has
on a product or with a company has so
much influence on the lifetime value of
that customer the happiness of that
customer and people often times lump all
customers into one C atory versus
segmenting where are they along their
experience with our product and I see
that sort of manifest in under resource
or under focus on the initial experience
that a customer has in implementation I
I would
overinvestment around not understanding
the business yeah I love the takeaway
there let me hit you with an example
here and and things that we think about
even at sapure today during our hiring
process sales Acumen is incredibly
important but what's more important to
me is what I call like the learner
mentality like to where you want to help
a customer get up and running right like
you want to help them implement the
thing they're trying to get to and so to
some degree if you look at our rubric
even as we're hiring for sales it has a
little bit of that support and customer
success mentality behind it partially
because the nature of our product and
the plg motion where like customers have
started already experiencing the product
in some way potentially before they talk
to a human in most cases that's true but
like leveraging that incredibly
important Point well taken wrap up the
people related topic on a question I'll
maybe give a couple examples first
because the question might be might not
be specific enough but it's around are
there any guiding principles that you
like to follow from a hiring standpoint
and what I mean by that is I'll just
give two illustrations and then maybe
that will trigger some thoughts for ugc
but I talk a lot and Jason actually from
sasra as well talks a lot about when
you're hiring your first salesperson or
your first SDR you should always hire
two and I I preach this I think Jason
preaches this I still see regularly we
hired our first salesperson we're not
planning on hiring our first salesperson
all the problems that come along with
that I'm not going to go into what that
is
but is higher too and then the second
one that comes to mind and I'd love to
hear your principles around this stuff
but when you hire your first marketing
person don't hire somebody really Junior
you should hire someone in look we could
say director level or above something
like that but someone that can come in
and operate in an envirment with
ambiguity where they know what to do
intuitively versus needing lots of
instruction on the marketing side would
love to hear of course if you have any
thoughts on those two but also
principles that you like to import yeah
I'm just going to plus one those two I
could add more but let me give a little
I'll add two to your list and maybe
you'll gravitate towards
these the first one's broad but I'm
going to I'm going to connect it to
product marketing in my one of my first
principles is focus on the anti-ar of
that hiring so oftentimes when you're
hiring a role a lot of this happens in
marketing you mentioned customer success
so that's another one as well where you
you have Clarity on what you think you
want them to do but you're not clear on
what they should not do what's the
anti-ar of that particular group and for
product marketing that's the one that
comes to mind when I say that it's such
a broad discipline in every organization
that I've been at I've ran product
marketing and if I describe product
marketing to you at that organization at
that time it's different for each
organiz like each of the organizations I
was at and what I like to tell people is
what do you not want product marketing
to do and that's where you have some of
the bigger misalignments and so I can
come back to that point in a second but
but that's like focusing on the anti
anti-ar is incredibly important the
second is I'm going to just because you
talked about sales and a little bit
about marketing it's like the demand gen
skill set I always like early days like
to focus on analytical skill sets on the
team and so when you when I think about
a potential first or second demand gen
hire or leader of that team I often
times gravitate towards how do I get the
most analytical people like focused on
that problem said demand gen and growth
for me go hand inand and so that's
another one that I think about is if you
have the analytical rigor across your go
to market team in particular in that
area some Focus there and then the last
thing I'll call out I said two but I'll
give you three because it comes on
General athletes as best you can do not
specialize early like focusing on hiring
top talent that can navigate challenges
and not just fill a role that's the key
thing here and so think about just
connecting it back to some of the things
that you're saying you mentioned like
sales SDR customer success and you
mentioned those two hires for sales like
the way I've approach things
specifically even at zap year and
previous to zap year like you start off
by having them do the like like one two
or three people do those jobs and then
you hire where you have gaps or see
success so ultimately you're almost
justifying hiring those roles because
oftentimes early days it could feel
pretty daunting you talk about inbound
sales AES sdrs customer success
Solutions Engineers like the list goes
on and so that's what all those are my
three I gave you the bonus there those
are awesome the third one what comes to
mind and it's maybe just a different
version of what you said but something
along the lines of hire people with
startup experience those people with
early stage startup experience are going
to be like maybe more generalist or just
get done what needs to be done and as
businesses get larger roles become more
and more specialized and so if you try
and bring bring somebody in who has had
a hyp specialized role at a larger
business that often times doesn't map
well to a startup where you on a general
athlete to use your language the one
that I think is really interesting to
touch on because I'm interested maybe
selfishly is the hardest that I have
ever tried to make and then also what I
have observed others try to make is in
the category of marketing and maybe even
more specifically demand gen would love
to learn maybe like oh qualifi part of
why much of go to market is really
objective especially at the sales level
you can point to like how much revenue a
person or a team closes and Dem Manion
it is objective but there can also
numbers can be played around with or
whatever it's a twart question what are
the things that you look for in
candidates that differentiate them in
marketing or demension specifically
roles and then two how do you assess
performance of these people let's call
it over the course of the first quarter
or two yeah so I'm going to be I'm going
to be biased in my thinking care so I
just want to call that out and so just
because of how I think about demand gen
and the way I'm going to describe this
is there's like generalizing it but
there's two type of demand gen leaders
that I normally come across let's say I
was interviewing for this role there's
two types that you're going to come
across the first is what I call like the
growth demand gen person so this is one
of those folks that's an iterative
thinker more metrics and analytics
focused understands not only top of the
funnel but also midf funnel looks for
the connection points like through the
customer Journey um thinks less about
paid Marketing in most cases and more
about leveraging other channels content
blogs video the list goes on they have a
different mindset most of those folks if
you look at their background like
somewhat could look like a consumer like
they could have a consumer background
not in all cases but they could have a
consumer background that's one type the
other type is what I call like the more
core B2B uh demand gen person so what
they're going to function as they're
going to use words like account based
marketing they're going to be more
targeted they're going to focus a lot on
segmentation customer lists looking for
specific profiles fortunex type
companies and how to attack those and
Target those still analytical thinkers
but sometimes don't know how to think
and leverage volume and so I keep going
but I'll stop there but that's how I
generalize the two demand gen type folks
sometimes they could do both but I'm
saying when you interview like you're
going to look you're going to see both
of those profiles and I'll tell you what
I gravitate towards I gravitate towards
the first one which is the growth one
and not just cuz I'm a plg person right
but I think especially early days it's
not always clear like where the where
the opportunity is but also where the
challenges are in your funnel so is it
top of funnel once you drive top of
funnel I will say it's awesome to drive
top of funnel because you now create
another challenge for yourself because
you need to now you need to convert them
into X whatever X is for your product it
could be a sale could be activation
whatever that may be and I gravitate
towards this like iterative analytical
thinker I really like people who could
or demand gen folks who like who think
with volume in mind right like and
leveraging that volume in some way and
so that's where like I gravitate towards
but there's also Merit in the other side
where you need someone depending on your
business model you need someone who can
really be more targeted right like you
need somebody who could find the
specific ICP bring them into your funnel
that is is valuable for whether it's the
plg motion or sales and but the one that
I gravitate towards like if I have to
choose every time I'm choosing that
category bias them I love the
specificity of the answer which is
exactly what we try and bring to the
audience so hopefully some tactical
takeaways there and then the second part
is one quarter two quarters what are the
things that you are looking for out of
this demand gen or marketing focused
tier that give you sign of performance
yeah solid question so there's two
things that I normally look for like the
first
is like Focus tactics it's easy to look
at the demand gen funnel or demand gen
in general and do whatever body else is
going to do but it's it isn't going to
have the impact on the business or
probably not an outsize impact on the
business yes you can go and stand up a
paid marketing funnel yes you could
think through some parts of SEO and
leveraging your website and blog and all
that stuff like those are table Stakes
but what I look for is there something
creative that's coming out of this group
like one or two tactics and I'm like oh
like you're thinking differently
something I think you have experienced
in to be fair right is that creative
thinking that the thing that you don't
do like that's everybody El like
everybody else is usually the thing that
has the most outsized impact it's not
always obvious to be fair right but
that's the thing that has the most
outside impact and I'll give one
recommendation here on how to get there
and then I'll move to the second thing I
look at the recommendation in something
we have been doing internally a little
bit is oftentimes you could look at
competitors or and you look at things
that work you try to do the thing that
they did that worked but we try to
reverse engineer competitors failures
because learning from these competitors
Stakes like really directly feed into
like our ideation and campaign thinking
and that's something that's been
interesting internally is like what
didn't work for them because one we
don't want to repeat that but like how
can we do something different and have a
more outsize impact and the second one
to me is pretty straightforward which is
are they understanding the puts and
takes to the business what's very
important to me is to understand the
wise behind our tactics so why is
something going up why is something
going down and do they the first one to
two months do they start to have that
foundational understanding of the
business because if you do then you
could start to tweak some of those
levers but that's like the second thing
it's a smart answer the first one sounds
subjective but in a weird way like it's
almost not where are there at least one
but hopefully multiple times where
there's an initiative that comes out of
Marketing that is that's really clever
and it's not clever to pay LinkedIn to
put an ad about your company to your
target buyer like anybody can do that
again it sounds and I guess it is
technically a little subjective but
there should be aha moments where you're
like that was a really good idea and it
worked okay let's continue along we
spent most of the time talking about
people and let's move or sort of
transition over to tactics so related
but different specifically want to talk
about what the highest Roi activities
from each go to market function and
let's actually start with something
that's not a function per se but more of
a strategy and one zapier is famous for
and that's product let growth and I
think for me and the audience actually
both first can you define what plg means
to you and then for many of us who are
like plg sounds awesome we want that
where do you get started what's plg
simply put the product doesn't sell you
so when you think about acquisition
retention expansion they all revolve
around the product capabilities in a plg
motion and it really starts to flip the
traditional sales model on its head
where it's less about the executive
buyer and really more about the end us
so user so the product essentially
becomes your sales team and so what are
the most important things about this
acquisition strategy makes it successful
I'll label this into three buckets and
I'll try to keep this succinct the first
is product the second is audience and
the first and the third is team and
organization setup so let's talk about
product real quick the simplest one is
it has to be easy to try and buy you
need to allow users to experience the
product before committing to a paid plan
that's become the norm that in free
versions freemium Plans free trials and
that's how you shortcase the core
capabilities of the product the one
thing I'd call out for people that or
folks that are listening is give folks
the full product let them experience the
whole thing instead of limiting your
trials that's what I always tell folks
is don't limit your trials to some
diluted version of your product because
then your customer is going to get a
diluted
experience second thing regarding
product is just being more user Centric
and that's where the focus is you need
to design your product with a focus on
things like user Simplicity and
intuitive interfaces interfaces features
that directly address like user pain
points and that includes things like in
product upsell expansion all that stuff
is built into this user Centric Focus
next one is audience so this one's
pretty SH word to me just make sure your
audience actually prefers trying and
buying the product via a more like
product and marketing experience in some
cases that's not true the example I'd
give here why did selfs serve work so
well for atlassian the audience was
developers primarily especially early
days developers did actually didn't want
to talk to salespeople they preferred to
consume everything from documentation to
the product experience even onboarding
for that matter right like through the
product through marketing through
technical documentation all those things
so that's something to think about
audience and then last thing that I
think doesn't always get called out is
team and organization setup and the way
I talk about team and organization setup
for plg but this is relevant to sales Le
is the front and back end of product Le
growth so the front end of plg is
executing on the key tactics for growth
like your website product onboarding
even human interactions but the next
piece is the backend and this is the
part that most compan companies actually
underestimate quite frankly I think it's
the most important part and that's areas
across Data Systems and tools to support
this motion they may be just as crital
not critical not more critical as you
scale so those are the things that
that's what I call out for the plg
motion and some of the acquisition
getting the acquisition strategy right
can you go one layer deeper on the uh
back end the data the system the front
end is intuitive talk a little bit more
about the lad yeah when you think about
the data system and tools I'm going to I
feel like I'm going to date myself here
I want to be like when I was a when I
was a Youngster at Dropbox right the
during our Dropbox days everything that
a user was doing within your product we
would log and the reason for that is
that had animportant impact on how we
were doing any type of marketing or
selling so let's imagine the traditional
sales motion today how does a
traditional sales motion work lead comes
in that lead gets qualified in some way
turns into an opportunity and then then
ultimately it goes through those stages
with your sales team in a plg motion
it's actually a little different The
Experience starts when a user ultimately
even before a user comes into your
product so you're basically logging
every data point from top of funnel all
the way through your product now think
activation rates think product usage
think key conversion rates but across
the funnel and you've got to log all
these moments in time and the reason you
want to do that is one you just want to
understand them because the truth is you
don't have a salesp person involved in
those interactions there's nobody like
catching them if they're going to fall
out so that's one and then two it
becomes a key things to a key thing to
leverage whenever you're doing sales and
marketing right we use this as as
zappier we use it as a way to segment
users or qualify them into the sales
funel based on their product usage and
so that's why it's so critical super
helpful yeah one other thing that comes
up on like clearly resourcing changes
when the business's product Le versus
sales Le and of course companies like
atasan and zapier are both with product
Le though I think there's this maybe
misconception that something around
Field of Dreams if you build it they
will come but you still need to generate
demand and so I guess if any if there
already what are the differences in how
people if we're a product L growth
organization first so where zappier
lassan at the beginning of the business
versus a sales Le organization let's say
more complex products to implement we
actually require salespeople to be
successful here what changes on the very
top of the funnel marketing and demand
gen strategy whether you're plg or sales
what the first is for a plg motion you
have to focus on volume right so the
that's the whole point of the plg motion
is like your acquisition strategy
actually needs to be very Roi friendly
because if we put a human in the lube
one that brings down the ROI but also
putting a human in Lube will if you're
doing that like you probably have a
bigger appetite for selling larger deal
or a certain ICP so you're focusing Less
on the volume and specific ICP where I
think for the plg motion you actually
have the opportunity to go broader but
remember the ROI should be much better
than the human lead motion right so
that's one key difference that I
describe the second is the tactics
aren't that different right so if you
like went at the tactics right if you
look at a true sales Le company and a
pure plg those motions from a pure
tactics perspective were not different
the channels were the same and those
things were the same but how we leverage
those channels like was actually quite
different so for as an example for
atlassian we lit up content and SEO in a
very aggressive way whereas at conf
point we had the we lit up content but
we didn't light it up as much we would
light up more like the paid side Etc cuz
we were more targeted in our ICP and we
felt like we can have the right Roi for
paid marketing at least at that time so
something for folks to think about is
just does you which one does your model
like need right for your for the
organization what does your product
support awesome good Segway talking a
lot about top of the funnel and the
differences between plg and sales LED so
let's move on to marketing specifically
as a function and earlier in the show I
mentioned that I think of marketing in
two broad categories you have product
marketing and Dem man gen so maybe we
take each separately and get your
guidance again on what you think is
important for businesses to nail with
each of these do you have any guidance
or common pitfalls specific tactics even
that you put in place that might spawn
ideas for people listening when they're
getting started with product marketing
or demand gen first I'll talk about
product marketing and then I'll hit the
demand gen side so from a product
marketing perspective I'll touch on
something I said earlier which which is
building the charter and anti-ar and I'm
going to be very specific here I'm going
to tell you exactly what our Charter is
for product marketing or the high level
themes for product marketing and sap
year and then a little bit about the
anti-ar so if you think about the
charter for marketing and sap year and
we did this recently it's focused on
product positioning so think
storytelling merchandising our product
think things like pricing and packaging
product launches and go to market
strategy and for go to market strategy
that's really shaping the strategy and
really bringing current and future
products to Market okay so that's like
the high level buckets for the charter
but then when we looked at the anti-
charter and this is where we had like
high level the most disagreement nobody
no everybody was thumbs up on the
charter side was things like limiting
project management reducing focus on our
lower tier one launches as like two
examples where this is where we said
product marketing was not going to spend
our time and we needed to find another
way to supported there's certain parts
of strategic work that we left out as
well and so those were the more
controversial parts of the charter
versus anti-ar so that's something
around pmm the second thing for pmm that
I'd like to call out is just like
understanding the customer we are very
specific and we want pmm to be involved
with our customers you could think
through it as should they be involved
the X amount of customer calls per month
and that's a goal that we have for
ourselves another thing I'd call out
there is they should partner with sales
to pitch a prospect so what that means
is product marketing should be on almost
I wouldn't say every call but could be
almost every call actually doing the
pitch and seeing how that resonates with
the customer making the changes and
tweaks based on what doesn't resonate
and then the last thing we do that I'd
call out is we actually run these like
customer Spotlight sessions with our
product teams we do it roughly monthly
here and I've done this in virtually
every single organization so imagine
getting a cross functional team into a
room engineering product design and the
core leaders of those parts of the of
the business and really helping them
understand key aspects of the business
from a customer point of view whether
it's like a customer win loss report or
something that we're seeing on the
self-service side very cool I'll give my
two cents on the demand gen side yeah
and then we can maybe wrap
with sales on demand gen the thing that
comes to mind to me and you actually
touched on this earlier the most
effective demand gen campaigns I've put
in place have this common thread of just
being different almost contrarian and
you described if somebody comes in and
just goes through the motions and does
what everyone else is doing did that not
that's not like what you want out of an
effective demand gen or more
specifically a demand gen campaign and I
approach basically every sort of demand
gen Channel or demand gen concept with
like how can we be different in doing
this how can we do paid online ads
differently how can we do outbound sales
differently and so if you approach it
from that standpoint like maybe you do
some of the table Stakes things that are
just smart to do that everybody else is
doing but I think you at least are like
throwing stuff up against the wall and
some of it is going to work
your contrarian example resonates a lot
with me and maybe I'll add one just for
to give a plus one to yours and all I'm
one to this something we've been doing
internally is focusing on what we call
or learning about micro moments and what
this means is we analyze the data know
the user buyer paths inside and out and
document those micro steps and then
build campaigns to like really move each
step like really bit by bit and
sometimes that takes a longer time but
really understanding that customer
Journey has been incredibly valuable for
us internally to understand what knobs
and levers we can move but also to your
point to figure out where we could just
be different right like where can we
just be different than everybody else
and impact the business perfect let's
end on the sales sides we've gone
product Le growth marketing let's end on
sales let's be really specific with the
last question that we'll wrap up on that
I think incorporates your experience
both it atasan and zapier how do you use
sales to complement plg uh so last and
zap you're both started almost famously
plg um now both have sales that have
been layered into plg when do you know
to layer in sales and what do you do
when you are ready to make that
supplementation what happens often times
when you think of like plg and sales for
let's say for any plg company I'll use
at last in theor here's what happens you
have this plg motion you decide for some
reason want to start a sales motion you
treat them as separate things right it's
almost like they're two separate funnels
you often times hear and I heard this
internally okay have a contact us form
all those leads go to sales everything
else is self- sered the buyer's journey
is actually not that simple right in
some cases it is and that makes sense
but really what the way I encourage
folks to think about plg and sales is
you want to add human engagement and it
shouldn't be segmented by stage of C
customer Journey but really the
complexity of the problem is solve
across the customer journey and this is
where I'll start to answer your question
and it's important to understand that
like more complexity is usually where
there's more money per customer that's
the way I think about it and that's
where you would need a human involved
but it may not be it may be in different
parts of the journey right like it's not
just through a contact us and so there's
one or two scenarios that i' talk about
there and that's this is where like I'd
introduce like a sales Motion in a plg
notion one is just there's complexity
and importance of of a problem to solve
for your business so example here is
like the pricing and packaging maybe is
different and getting signal on
willingness to pay is another one or use
case identification is another one so
leveraging humans as part of that and
then the second thing is stakeholders
and focusing more on senior stakeholders
and that like really typically translate
to like larger problems and then more
stakeholders to convinced to get part of
that buy in and get to a close and so
those are two areas that we actually
introduce our sales team and and then
I'll throw in like a bonus here that I
think is the most important thing for
anybody introducing get human into a plg
motion use the humans to learn that's
what I'll like that's what I'll leave
you with is like wherever you inject a
human in a plg
motion plg is the most efficient model
you actually aren't using humans in
there right there has to be a reason to
inject them in there but it's okay to
use them to learn as part of that funnel
cuz the truth is the worst case scenario
is you actually don't need a human but
they learn something about your funnel
that could change something in your
product the experience your messaging
whatever that may be so leverage like
your sales teams to do that as well so
that's what I'd call out for the sales
and GS side awesome GC this was a ton of
fun so thank you for spending so much
time with us lots of just incredible
learnings I'm coming away with and
hopefully the audience is the same for
folks listening in thank you for joining
we'll see you back next time take care
all right see everybody thank you